README.md, before:

# Getting Started

Repository for Make-Easy HMIS

# 1. How to Run the Project

The project is divided into two parts, the frontend and the backend.
The frontend is built with Next.js and the backend with Django.
The backend is a Django hat serves the frontend.
The frontend is a NextJs dashboard that consumes the API.
The easiest way to get started is to use Docker. In teh root directory
there is a `docker-compose-local.yml` file that will set up all
the services you need including celery and redis. As of September,
backend uses sqlite, so no need to set up external postgres,.
This will however be changed when deployed. However, for local
development, I advice you use `docker-compose-local.yml`.

## i. Running with Docker

If you're running with docker, inside `./src/assets/backend-axios-instance/index.js`
update the `baseURL` with `baseURL = baseURL: "http://backend:8000"`. Frontend will use the backend
container's name as the baseURL.
Make sure you have the `.env` file specified in the `docker-compose-local.yml` or `docker-compose.yml`.
You can simply rename the `.env.local` to `.env` and update the variables accordingly.
In the root directory run;
`docker compose up`
If you want to run the development version, run:
`docker compose -f docker-compose-local.yml up`
Frontend will be running on `http://127.0.0.1:3000` and backend on `http://127.0.0.1:8000`
This well set up all the services you need including celery and redis. As of the latest revision of this docs, backend uses sqlite, so no need to set up external postgres,. This will however be changed when deployed.

After the steps above, jump to Adding Permissions and add permissions. You can also check notifications while at it.

## ii. Running Manually

I highly suggest you use docker as explained above. However, if for some reason or the other you're not able to use docker, follow the steps below to run manually.

### Backend

First rename the `./backend/.env.local` to `.env` with the sample code inside

### i) Windows

[Install](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/virtual-environment-6ad5d9b6af59) python and virtualenv.
Next, in the project directory run:

```
virtualenv venv
venv\scripts\activate
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
python manage.py makemigrations customuser authperms patient pharmacy inventory laboratory company receptions billing announcement
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py runserver
```

### ii) Linux

```
virtualenv venv
source venv/bin/activate
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt

python manage.py makemigrations customuser authperms patient pharmacy inventory laboratory company receptions billing announcement

python manage.py migrate
python manage.py runserver
```

All looks good if you can see the djago admin panel at `127.0.0.1:8080/admin`
Kill the server for now and create a superuser with `python manage.py createsuperuser`
You'll use this account to log into the dashboard in frontend

To register patients using landing page, create a group in django Admin called PATIENT, but we'll dive deeper in this in the permissions section.

To browse available endpoints, visit:

```
127.0.0.1:8085/docs/swagger/
```

### Celery and Redis

If not installed already, install celery and redis INSIDE YOUR VIRTUAL ENV
`pip install celery redis`
Run Celery: `celery -A easymed worker --loglevel=INFO`
Run Redis: `redis-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 6379`

### Celery beat

If not installed already, install celery and redis INSIDE YOUR VIRTUAL ENV
`pip install celery redis`
Run Celery: `celery -A easymed beat --loglevel=INFO`

## Frontend

Update the baseURL inside `./src/assets/backend-axios-instance/index.js` to `"http://127.0.0.1:8000",`

#### First, create a .env file in the same directory as the src folder then add the following:

- NEXT_PUBLIC_HMIS_VERSION=v0.0.1-alpha-0.1
- NEXT_PUBLIC_BASE_URL=""

Install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

Lastly run the development server using:

```
npm run dev
```

Dev version can be a little slow. To run a faster build version, use the following commands:

```
npm run build
npm start
```

Visit localhost `127.0.0.1:3000/dashboard`

# 2. Adding Permissions

You need to create groups and associate permissions. make sure groups follow this order `SYS_ADMIN`, `PATIENT` group then the rest ie `DOCTOR`,`PHARMACIST`, `RECEPTIONIST`, `LAB_TECH` , `NURSE`
Then create permissions below and link to the `GROUPS`.
N/B: Frontend will not work without permissions and Groups set up.
Create super user then navigate to localhost:8080/admin and add permissions;

- Doctor Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_DOCTOR_DASHBOARD`
- General Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_GENERAL_DASHBOARD`
- Admin Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_ADMIN_DASHBOARD`
- Reception Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_RECEPTION_DASHBOARD`
- Nursing Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_NURSING_DASHBOARD`
- Laboratory Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_LABORATORY_DASHBOARD`
- Patients Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_PATIENTS_DASHBOARD`
- AI ASSISTANT Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_AI_ASSISTANT_DASHBOARD`
- Announcement Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_ANNOUNCEMENT_DASHBOARD`
- Pharmacy Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_PHARMACY_DASHBOARD`
- Inventory Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_INVENTORY_DASHBOARD`
- Billing Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_BILLING_DASHBOARD`
- Settings Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_ADMIN_DASHBOARD` -`CAN_RECEIVE_INVENTORY_NOTIFICATIONS`

You will notice that we have a Role and a Group. A group is associated with permissions which determines which specific dashboards a user is allowed to access. A role helps differentiate staff from patients hence redirecting to patient profile if patient and to general dashboard if staff.

If doing all these manually sounds like too much work, you can run the command below to create the groups and permissions automatically.
```
python manage.py generate_dummy_data
```
This will also generate dummy data for the database, including users, items, and insurance companies.

# 3. Notifications

### i. Testing Socket connection for notifications

Django's runserver does not support asgi (socket connections required for notifications)
run with uvicorn to have the notifications working
`uvicorn --port 8080 easymed.asgi:application`

Currently, the notifications are sent to the group `doctor_notifications` and `inventory_notifications`

On a separate terminal
`npm install -g wscat`

### ii. Patient Notifications

on a separate terminal
`wscat -c ws://localhost:8080/ws/doctor_notifications/` <-- appointment assigned notification will be seen here

### iii. Inventory Notifications

First navigate to the admin panel and assign permission`CAN_RECEIVE_INVENTORY_NOTIFICATIONS` to a group to ensure specific users receive notifications via email

Example:

- Group: `LAB_TECH`
- Permission: `CAN_RECEIVE_INVENTORY_NOTIFICATIONS`

on a separate terminal
`wscat -c ws://localhost:8080/ws/inventory_notifications/` <-- inventory notification will be seen here

# 4. A word on patient processes

Each process starting form Appointment, should be billed first before it's actioned.
For Billing to work, these should be updated in order.
Patient must have Insurance if not, cash will be picked by default.
Payment Modes should be updated in that regard
Add Item
Add Inventory for that item
Add InsuranceSalePrise for specific Items depending on the Insurance

# 5. Reporting

### Sale by Date Range

To generate sales by given date, send sample request as shown below
`curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/reports/sale_by_date/   -H "Content-Type: application/json"   -d '{"start_date": "2024-02-01", "end_date": "2024-02-18"}' > report-log.txt`
curl
The `> report-log.txt` just dumps the logs to the report-log.txt file for troubleshooting.

If sending directly from frontend, just configure the payload and send to the endpoint `http://localhost:8080/reports/sale_by_date/ `
You can access the generated report here
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/sale_by_date/pdf/`

### Sale by Date Range and Item Id

To generated sales report by date range and given item id;
`curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/reports/sale_by_item_and_date/   -H "Content-Type: application/json"   -d '{"item_id": "1", "start_date": "2024-02-01", "end_date": "2024-02-10"}'`

You can access the generated pdf here `/serve_sales_by_item_id_pdf/`

### Sales by payment mode

Send POST request to the endpoint below, teh response will have the total amount
for a given payment mode
`/reports/total_payment_mode_amount/?payment_mode=insurance&date=2024-02-18`

### Lab reports

By default, or when explicitly specified, all lab test will be quantitative and will use the following endpoints. In the same order, create a report, add test-panel-results to that report
then generate the pdf report
`/lab/lab-test-results/`
`/lab/lab-test-results-panel/`
`/download_labtestresult_pdf/<int:labtestresult_id>/`

To get a test result report for a particular patient, you send a GET request to this endpoint:
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/download_labtestresult_pdf/{processtestrequest_id}`

### Doctor Reports

This will give you all appointments by given doctor and date range
http://127.0.0.1:8080/patients/report/appointments/?doctor_id=1&start_date=2024-08-01&end_date=2024-08-31

If no date range is specified it will get you a report for all appointments
http://127.0.0.1:8080/patients/report/appointments/?doctor_id=2

### Goods Receipt note

Generates a receipt note for incoming items
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/inventory/receipt-note/{purchade_order_id}/`

### Supplier Invoice Report

This will give us a report of all invoices by a given supplier. Can be used to
show account details for a given supplier
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/inventory/supplier-invoice-report/{supplier_id}/`

# 6. Laboratory Integration

Due to the complexity of the lab module, the integration will be handled by a parser which
is hosted on a separate repository [here](https://github.com/mosesmbadi/hl7_astm_parser).
Here's an overview of the process;

1. The parser listens to a specific port for incoming messages
2. If incoming message is HL7 or ASTM, it convirts to JSON and sends to the backend
3. The backend receives the JSON and saves to the database
4. If the incoming message is JSON, the parser will extract the equipment name, convirts the JSON to HL7 or ASTM and sends to the equipment.

# 7 System Requirements

Minimum system specifications
RAM 8GB
Disk SSD 250GB
CPU 3-10th Gen

Other requirements;
The system uses TCP to primarily integret with Equipment.
For equipment with any other form of coms other than TCP/Ethernet,
will need to be configured with additional hardware that converts
the coms to TCP
A device such us [this](https://www.whizz.co.ke/product/1443079/usr-tcp232-302-tiny-size-rs232-to-tcp-ip-converter-serial-rs232-to-ethernet-server-module-ethernet-converter-support-dhcp-dns/), can work.

Last Revised January, 11, 2025, by [Moses Mbadi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/moses-mbadi-0b8500198/)

## Invoicing process

For Invoicing to work appropriately, you need to create an Item, then add the item to the inventory
and an InsuranceSalePrice for that item.

InvoiceItem
--> post_save - update_item_price_on_invoice()
--> post_save - update_is_billed_status() -> update_service_billed_status()
--> pre_save - check_quantity_before_billing() -> check_quantity_availability()

check_quantity_availability()
-> get_available_stock()
-> get_available_stock()
-> update_stock_quantity_if_stock_is_available()
-> update_stock_quantity_if_stock_is_available()

# 8 Deployment with Terraform, ansible and Github Action

First things first, you need to configure your AWS credentials. You can do this by running `aws configure` and entering your credentials.
You can also set the credentials in the `~/.aws/credentials` file.

Next, you need to have terraform and ansible installed. You can install terraform by following the instructions [here](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) and ansible by following the instructions [here](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html).

After the prerequisites are out of the way, you can now proceed to deploy the application. The deployment process is divided into two parts, the infrastructure and the application.

First CD into /deployment directory and run the following commands:

Commands to run terraform

```bash
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

That will provision our infrastracture. We then let ansible take care of the rest:
`ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini ansible-playbook.yml`

Ofcourse that is if you want to deploy manually. However, with the Github actions set up,
the entire deployment proxes is handled by the actions. You can check the actions in the `.github/workflows` directory.

To destroy all resources created
`terraform destroy`

### Monitoring

Monitoring will be handled by Prometheus and Grafana.
To test the backend metrics manually, hit this endpoint `/metrics`

### Trubleshooting

If you get an error saying invalid AMI, you can check the available AMIs in your region by running the command below:
`aws ec2 describe-images --owners amazon --filters "Name=name,Values=ubuntu/images/*" --region us-east-1`

## SCREENSHOTS

![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-35-50.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-35-57.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-05.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-16.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-16.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-26.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-43.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-37-05.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-23.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-32.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-41.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-48.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-59.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-39-10.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")

Commit message:

updated docs on the latest changes

README.md, after:

# Getting Started

Repository for Make-Easy HMIS

# 1. How to Run the Project

The project is divided into two parts, the frontend and the backend.
The frontend is built with Next.js and the backend with Django.
The backend is a Django hat serves the frontend.
The frontend is a NextJs dashboard that consumes the API.
The easiest way to get started is to use Docker. In teh root directory
there is a `docker-compose-local.yml` file that will set up all
the services you need including celery and redis. As of September,
backend uses sqlite, so no need to set up external postgres,.
This will however be changed when deployed. However, for local
development, I advice you use `docker-compose-local.yml`.

## i. Running with Docker

If you're running with docker, inside `./src/assets/backend-axios-instance/index.js`
update the `baseURL` with `baseURL = baseURL: "http://backend:8000"`. Frontend will use the backend
container's name as the baseURL.
Make sure you have the `.env` file specified in the `docker-compose-local.yml` or `docker-compose.yml`.
You can simply rename the `.env.local` to `.env` and update the variables accordingly.
In the root directory run;
`docker compose up`
If you want to run the development version, run:
`docker compose -f docker-compose-local.yml up`
Frontend will be running on `http://127.0.0.1:3000` and backend on `http://127.0.0.1:8000`
This well set up all the services you need including celery and redis. As of the latest revision of this docs, backend uses sqlite, so no need to set up external postgres,. This will however be changed when deployed.

After the steps above, jump to Adding Permissions and add permissions. You can also check notifications while at it.

## ii. Running Manually

I highly suggest you use docker as explained above. However, if for some reason or the other you're not able to use docker, follow the steps below to run manually.

### Backend

First rename the `./backend/.env.local` to `.env` with the sample code inside

### i) Windows

[Install](https://medium.com/analytics-vidhya/virtual-environment-6ad5d9b6af59) python and virtualenv.
Next, in the project directory run:

```
virtualenv venv
venv\scripts\activate
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt
python manage.py makemigrations customuser authperms patient pharmacy inventory laboratory company receptions billing announcement
python manage.py migrate
python manage.py runserver
```

### ii) Linux

```
virtualenv venv
source venv/bin/activate
cd backend
pip install -r requirements.txt

python manage.py makemigrations customuser authperms patient pharmacy inventory laboratory company receptions billing announcement

python manage.py migrate
python manage.py runserver
```

All looks good if you can see the djago admin panel at `127.0.0.1:8080/admin`
Kill the server for now and create a superuser with `python manage.py createsuperuser`
You'll use this account to log into the dashboard in frontend

To register patients using landing page, create a group in django Admin called PATIENT, but we'll dive deeper in this in the permissions section.

To browse available endpoints, visit:

```
127.0.0.1:8085/docs/swagger/
```

### Celery and Redis

If not installed already, install celery and redis INSIDE YOUR VIRTUAL ENV
`pip install celery redis`
Run Celery: `celery -A easymed worker --loglevel=INFO`
Run Redis: `redis-cli -h 127.0.0.1 -p 6379`

### Celery beat

If not installed already, install celery and redis INSIDE YOUR VIRTUAL ENV
`pip install celery redis`
Run Celery: `celery -A easymed beat --loglevel=INFO`

## Frontend
The backend url is updated inside .env
i.e NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=http://<your-private-ip-address>:8080/

If you want to run frontend outside of docker, you will need to create a .env file in the same directory as the src folder then add the following:

```
NEXT_PUBLIC_BACKEND_URL=http://<your-private-ip-address>:8080/
NEXT_PUBLIC_HMIS_VERSION=v0.0.1-alpha-0.1
NEXT_PUBLIC_BASE_URL=""
```

You can get your private IP by running `ifconfig` on Linux or `ipconfig` on Windows.

Install dependencies:

```
npm install
```

Lastly run the development server using:

```
npm run dev
```

Dev version can be a little slow. To run a faster build version, use the following commands:

```
npm run build
npm start
```

Visit localhost `127.0.0.1:3000/dashboard`
For you to borwse through frontend pages, you will need to set up permissions. So, let's go back to backend and add permission and groups.

# 2. Adding Permissions
The steps below are performed inside the django admin interface.
You need to create groups and associate permissions. make sure groups follow this order `SYS_ADMIN`, `PATIENT` group then the rest ie `DOCTOR`,`PHARMACIST`, `RECEPTIONIST`, `LAB_TECH` , `NURSE`
Then create permissions below and link to the `GROUPS`.
N/B: Frontend will not work without permissions and Groups set up.
Create super user then navigate to localhost:8080/admin and add permissions;

- Doctor Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_DOCTOR_DASHBOARD`
- General Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_GENERAL_DASHBOARD`
- Admin Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_ADMIN_DASHBOARD`
- Reception Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_RECEPTION_DASHBOARD`
- Nursing Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_NURSING_DASHBOARD`
- Laboratory Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_LABORATORY_DASHBOARD`
- Patients Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_PATIENTS_DASHBOARD`
- AI ASSISTANT Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_AI_ASSISTANT_DASHBOARD`
- Announcement Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_ANNOUNCEMENT_DASHBOARD`
- Pharmacy Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_PHARMACY_DASHBOARD`
- Inventory Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_INVENTORY_DASHBOARD`
- Billing Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_BILLING_DASHBOARD`
- Settings Dashboard => `CAN_ACCESS_ADMIN_DASHBOARD` -`CAN_RECEIVE_INVENTORY_NOTIFICATIONS`

You will notice that we have a Role and a Group. A group is associated with permissions which determines which specific dashboards a user is allowed to access. A role helps differentiate staff from patients hence redirecting to patient profile if patient and to general dashboard if staff.

If doing all these manually sounds like too much work, you can run the command below to create the groups and permissions automatically.
```
python manage.py generate_dummy_data
```
This will also generate dummy data for the database, including users, items, and insurance companies.

# 3. Notifications

### i. Testing Socket connection for notifications

Django's runserver does not support asgi (socket connections required for notifications)
run with uvicorn to have the notifications working
`uvicorn --port 8080 easymed.asgi:application`

Currently, the notifications are sent to the group `doctor_notifications` and `inventory_notifications`

On a separate terminal
`npm install -g wscat`

### ii. Patient Notifications

on a separate terminal
`wscat -c ws://localhost:8080/ws/doctor_notifications/` <-- appointment assigned notification will be seen here

### iii. Inventory Notifications

First navigate to the admin panel and assign permission`CAN_RECEIVE_INVENTORY_NOTIFICATIONS` to a group to ensure specific users receive notifications via email

Example:

- Group: `LAB_TECH`
- Permission: `CAN_RECEIVE_INVENTORY_NOTIFICATIONS`

on a separate terminal
`wscat -c ws://localhost:8080/ws/inventory_notifications/` <-- inventory notification will be seen here

# 4. A word on patient processes

Each process starting form Appointment, should be billed first before it's actioned.
For Billing to work, these should be updated in order.
Patient must have Insurance if not, cash will be picked by default.
Payment Modes should be updated in that regard
Add Item
Add Inventory for that item
Add InsuranceSalePrise for specific Items depending on the Insurance

# 5. Reporting

### Sale by Date Range

To generate sales by given date, send sample request as shown below
`curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/reports/sale_by_date/   -H "Content-Type: application/json"   -d '{"start_date": "2024-02-01", "end_date": "2024-02-18"}' > report-log.txt`
curl
The `> report-log.txt` just dumps the logs to the report-log.txt file for troubleshooting.

If sending directly from frontend, just configure the payload and send to the endpoint `http://localhost:8080/reports/sale_by_date/ `
You can access the generated report here
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/sale_by_date/pdf/`

### Sale by Date Range and Item Id

To generated sales report by date range and given item id;
`curl -X POST http://localhost:8080/reports/sale_by_item_and_date/   -H "Content-Type: application/json"   -d '{"item_id": "1", "start_date": "2024-02-01", "end_date": "2024-02-10"}'`

You can access the generated pdf here `/serve_sales_by_item_id_pdf/`

### Sales by payment mode

Send POST request to the endpoint below, teh response will have the total amount
for a given payment mode
`/reports/total_payment_mode_amount/?payment_mode=insurance&date=2024-02-18`

### Lab reports

By default, or when explicitly specified, all lab test will be quantitative and will use the following endpoints. In the same order, create a report, add test-panel-results to that report
then generate the pdf report
`/lab/lab-test-results/`
`/lab/lab-test-results-panel/`
`/download_labtestresult_pdf/<int:labtestresult_id>/`

To get a test result report for a particular patient, you send a GET request to this endpoint:
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/download_labtestresult_pdf/{processtestrequest_id}`

### Doctor Reports

This will give you all appointments by given doctor and date range
http://127.0.0.1:8080/patients/report/appointments/?doctor_id=1&start_date=2024-08-01&end_date=2024-08-31

If no date range is specified it will get you a report for all appointments
http://127.0.0.1:8080/patients/report/appointments/?doctor_id=2

### Goods Receipt note

Generates a receipt note for incoming items
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/inventory/receipt-note/{purchade_order_id}/`

### Supplier Invoice Report

This will give us a report of all invoices by a given supplier. Can be used to
show account details for a given supplier
`http://127.0.0.1:8080/inventory/supplier-invoice-report/{supplier_id}/`

# 6. Laboratory Integration

Due to the complexity of the lab module, the integration will be handled by a parser which
is hosted on a separate repository [here](https://github.com/mosesmbadi/hl7_astm_parser).
Here's an overview of the process;

1. The parser listens to a specific port for incoming messages
2. If incoming message is HL7 or ASTM, it convirts to JSON and sends to the backend
3. The backend receives the JSON and saves to the database
4. If the incoming message is JSON, the parser will extract the equipment name, convirts the JSON to HL7 or ASTM and sends to the equipment.

# 7 System Requirements

Minimum system specifications
RAM 8GB
Disk SSD 250GB
CPU 3-10th Gen

Other requirements;
The system uses TCP to primarily integret with Equipment.
For equipment with any other form of coms other than TCP/Ethernet,
will need to be configured with additional hardware that converts
the coms to TCP
A device such us [this](https://www.whizz.co.ke/product/1443079/usr-tcp232-302-tiny-size-rs232-to-tcp-ip-converter-serial-rs232-to-ethernet-server-module-ethernet-converter-support-dhcp-dns/), can work.

Last Revised January, 11, 2025, by [Moses Mbadi](https://www.linkedin.com/in/moses-mbadi-0b8500198/)

## Invoicing process

For Invoicing to work appropriately, you need to create an Item, then add the item to the inventory
and an InsuranceSalePrice for that item.

InvoiceItem
--> post_save - update_item_price_on_invoice()
--> post_save - update_is_billed_status() -> update_service_billed_status()
--> pre_save - check_quantity_before_billing() -> check_quantity_availability()

check_quantity_availability()
-> get_available_stock()
-> get_available_stock()
-> update_stock_quantity_if_stock_is_available()
-> update_stock_quantity_if_stock_is_available()

# 8 Deployment with Terraform, ansible and Github Action

First things first, you need to configure your AWS credentials. You can do this by running `aws configure` and entering your credentials.
You can also set the credentials in the `~/.aws/credentials` file.

Next, you need to have terraform and ansible installed. You can install terraform by following the instructions [here](https://learn.hashicorp.com/tutorials/terraform/install-cli) and ansible by following the instructions [here](https://docs.ansible.com/ansible/latest/installation_guide/intro_installation.html).

After the prerequisites are out of the way, you can now proceed to deploy the application. The deployment process is divided into two parts, the infrastructure and the application.

First CD into /deployment directory and run the following commands:

Commands to run terraform

```bash
terraform init
terraform plan
terraform apply
```

That will provision our infrastracture. We then let ansible take care of the rest:
`ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini ansible-playbook.yml`

Ofcourse that is if you want to deploy manually. However, with the Github actions set up,
the entire deployment proxes is handled by the actions. You can check the actions in the `.github/workflows` directory.

To destroy all resources created
`terraform destroy`

### Monitoring

Monitoring will be handled by Prometheus and Grafana.
To test the backend metrics manually, hit this endpoint `/metrics`

### Trubleshooting

If you get an error saying invalid AMI, you can check the available AMIs in your region by running the command below:
`aws ec2 describe-images --owners amazon --filters "Name=name,Values=ubuntu/images/*" --region us-east-1`

## SCREENSHOTS

![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-35-50.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-35-57.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-05.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-16.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-16.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-26.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-36-43.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-37-05.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-23.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-32.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-41.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-48.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-38-59.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
![Alt text](./screenshots/screenshot-39-10.png?raw=true "EasyMed-HMIS-Screenshots")
